first round of updates (#2)
keegoid-nr/docs-website: src/content/docs/new-relic-solutions/best-practices-guides/full-stack-observability/synthetic-monitoring-best-practices-guide.mdx

Synthetic monitors are virtual browsers that measure the performance of your website, recording each check in detail. They also capture aggregate numbers for load time, uptime, and average download size, as well as an overview, detailed statistics for each page resource, and downtime incidents.

> There are [seven types of synthetic monitors](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/getting-started/types-synthetic-monitors). Which monitors you choose to deploy will depend on what you want to monitor and how you want to create the monitor. For example, a Step monitor is a great way to create what is essentially a Scripted browser monitor behind the curtains, without having to write code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have [seven types of synthetic monitors](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/getting-started/types-synthetic-monitors) to choose from, depending on what you want to monitor and how you'd like to do it. For example, a [step monitor](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors/add-edit-monitors#stepmonitor) is a great way to create what essentially functions as a scripted browser without having to write code. If you're looking for programmatic management of your monitors, you can also bulk create, edit, or delete your synthetic monitors with our [NerdGraph API](/docs/apis/nerdgraph/examples/nerdgraph-synthetics-tutorial). 
```

Reviewer: I like that you deleted the list. Added our NerdGraph option as a counter-option to step monitors and made some changes to style.

### How to do it [#howto-1]

> 1. To add a monitor, go to **[one.newrelic.com](http://one.newrelic.com) > Synthetics** (or [one.eu.newrelic.com](http://one.eu.newrelic.com) if you have an [EU-based account](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-eu-region-data-center)) and click **Create monitor** at the top right of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To add a monitor, go to **[one.newrelic.com](http://one.newrelic.com)** > **Synthetics**. If you have an [EU-based account](/docs/using-new-relic/welcome-new-relic/get-started/introduction-eu-region-data-center), go to  **[one.eu.newrelic.com](http://one.eu.newrelic.com)*. Click **Create monitor** at the top right of the page.
```

    ![](/src/images/synthetics-create-monitor.png)
2. Select a monitor type and then fill in all required fields.

> 3. Optionally add tags, change the Period or Runtime (available for Simple browser, Scripted browser and API), or add a validation string (available for Ping and Simple browser) or advanced options, which enable substring monitoring for the following types of response validation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. You have the option to add tags, change the **Period** or [Runtime version](/docs/synthetics/synthetic-monitoring/using-monitors/new-runtime)(available for simple browser, scripted browser and API monitors), or add a validation string (available for ping and simple browser monitors), or use advanced options, which enable substring monitoring for the following types of response validation:
```

   * **Verify SSL (for ping and simple browser).** This option verifies the validity of the SSL certificate chain. It can be duplicated by running the following syntax:

     ```sh
     openssl s_client -servername <var>{YOUR_HOSTNAME}</var> -connect <var>{YOUR_HOSTNAME</var>}:443 -CApath /etc/ssl/certs > /dev/null
     ```

>    * **Bypass HEAD request (for Ping).** This option skips the default HEAD request and instead uses the GET verb with a ping check. GET requests will always happen if the HEAD request fails.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **Bypass HEAD request (for ping monitors).** This option skips the default HEAD request and instead uses the GET verb with a ping check. GET requests will always happen if the HEAD request fails.
```

Reviewer: Do we need to put HEAD/GET in code blocks?

Author: They could be inline code for clarity.

>    * **Redirect is Failure (for Ping).** If a redirect result occurs when Redirect is Failure is enabled, Synthetics categorizes it as a failure (rather than following the redirect and checking the resulting URL).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **Redirect is Failure (for ping).** If a redirect result occurs when `Redirect is Failure` is enabled, your synthetic monitors categorize it as a failure (rather than following the redirect and checking the resulting URL).
```
